[Music]
Thank You makeup artist welcome back to
Jimmy Kimmel Live from my house my guest
tonight is the only human being ever to
hold the titles of mr. universe and
Governor of California
he is beaming in now from his casa
LaVista please welcome Arnold
Schwarzenegger hello governor
you've got an infestation there it seems
I'm telling you I have everything here
they love to eat here when I have lunch
not just finished lunch and now they are
here and they just like to participate a
little bit with the lunch I hope you
don't mind
you got a donkey and a horse there right
yeah my ride is whiskey and then I left
right years is Lulu how does it work are
they free to roam the house yeah yeah I
mean they roam around the house they go
upstairs they go downstairs they are all
over the place they watched me might not
work out and everything like that
fantastic
and they fight of course to the same
food I mean his whiskey she just loves
to have oatmeal cookies so my favorite
thing your favorite dessert is oatmeal
cookies and of course they take all my
octo cookies away we're skinned are
these animals house trained well you
know yes trained but it happened one
time in the kitchen but there was okay I
mean it just smelled a little bit from
from finish Nestle and from poo at the
same time but this your house is turned
into the island of dr. Moreau I thought
this was interesting I learned something
about you that when you were governor
you prepared the state for a situation
like this like stockpiling how many
masks and and ventilators and whatnot
did you start Palma always talked about
you know millions of maths and Bandhan
later thousands of Bandar ladies I think
was 2400 ventilators in beds and stuff
like that and I think the whole idea was
to be prepared for an earthquake or to
be prepared from massive a lot of files
because one day I woke up when I was
governor and we had 2000 2012 fires in
the state of California in one shot in
one day and they were grazing on from
south to north so I said to myself you
have to be prepared for this and years
later years later the state was able to
access those masks and and ventilators
well yes so what would happen was time
and a certain amount of money to put
this whole thing together and you have
to be very thoughtful and know exactly
what you want to go and and and put
together so but we did it
and then it took around five million
dollars to keep it up and to keep the
storage and to keep it updated and
everything in storage and so there were
budget crises and so there was governors
that they decided that they didn't want
to go and continue on paying because
they decided that the money should go
somewhere else because in a budget
crisis and you have 220 billion dollar
deficit you have to make tough decisions
and it's clear and say they made that
decision and but I think that some of
the stuff was still in storage and they
found it and they used it in the
hospital so it was really good and I'm
always a guy that likes to be prepared
so it doesn't matter if it is with the
budget or if it was with the levies I
was the first one to go out and to tell
the state and our lawmakers that we need
to upgrade our levies because we have
2300 miles of levees in California and
so they of course didn't want to have
anything to do with it and then in
Katrina happen in New Orleans and the
levees broke that
when they came back to me then and said
oh I understand now that why we need
levees have you been in touch with
governor Newsom do you collaborate you
work together he can draw this
experience yes the governor Newsom and I
we have been friends for a long time and
you know he is he is doing a terrific
job as governor here and the way he
deals with the crisis he was very smart
and reaching out to the past governor's
like Governor Brown and Governor Davis
governor Wilson and myself Democrats and
Republicans and the reason why I'm
making that is because I think it's very
important that we don't make this a
political kind of a situation you know
same any time and politics everyone is
trying if the political parties are
always trying to divide people and I am
a uniter I think it much what can get
done when you need night people many
bring them together and that's what
Newsom is doing you know he reached out
the governor Wilson who is a Republican
me I'm a Republican and then also
Richard to the Democrats you know the
brown at the Davis and so we are all
working together and helping him to
bring the economy back in California and
also with the budget crisis because
right this is huge I mean I'm telling
you I cannot give you the numbers here's
the numbers but I mean they huge numbers
I guarantee you this is going to be a
bigger budget deficit than we have ever
had before and not just in our state but
in other states and so I think it needs
a lot of brain power and a lot of
different ways of thinking to bring the
economy back and so we are helping with
me it's all about how do we become part
of the solution rather than part of the
problem so when people ask me all the
time about so you know how is Trump
doing what do you think about this I
said look I think if no one is waking up
in the morning and say to themselves I
want to screw up you know everyone is
going to wake up and say you know I want
to do the best job possible and so I
think in general governments have been
slow in their reaction and a beginning
Democrats and Republicans have been slow
and every action and I think they will
learn from this experience now and by
the time this is over we can go and
evaluate and see
what mistakes were made and how do we
make those mistakes in every game that
is I think the important thing I think a
great illustration of your your
bipartisan work is that you are a
Republican who owns a donkey I think
that's something else when we come back
we are with Arnold Schwarzenegger and Ed
Norton Edward Norton will join us to
they'll tell us about what they're up to
welcome back to become alive from my
house I'm with Arnold Schwarzenegger and
joining us is Edward Norton his friend
how do you guys know each other had we
we met at a wedding at a bar I you know
what it was was I was looking I was a
start I was starting to train for
American History X and I asked Arnold
said you you said you know you look good
you look you look trim and I said well I
I said I'm I'm actually trying to put on
some size so maybe you could give me
some advice and he asked me to break
down my workout so I was pretty proud
you know I was slinging a lot of steel
back then and I was I was um I told him
my whole workout and he goes yeah that's
that's pretty good you're doing two a
day and I said no just just once a day
and he goes well that's pretty good and
a bond was forged you guys have teamed
up to launch the front line responders
fund tell us about that and how we can
get involved well I you know I got I
have two really dear friends one of my
really great pals from college dr.
Howard Drella is one of the senior ER
doctors at st. Barnabas in the Bronx and
my friend dr. Ali wolf is at Scripps in
San Diego they're both in the ER there
they're very very anxious you know
sitting at home and knowing that really
good friends of mine are on a daily
basis going into these incredibly
intense frontline situations I've been
worried about their health and we were
all hearing about critical short
shortage of year to protect our the
doctors and the people who were finding
the masks at buying the masks and buying
the equipment that was one thing but in
some cases there were these enormous
delays in getting the equipment from
where they were finding it like
especially and so I I started working
this great organization Flipboard is
basically procuring planes big cargo
planes at a huge discount and we built a
fund to underwrite the cost of flying
these big cargo flights for all of the
hospitals and all the nonprofits and all
the donors who are finding masks to try
to uncork the delays so we've been
working on trying to get the delays down
from a month or six weeks to like a
couple of days and turnaround on these
orders and Arnold
you know launch discs or is he get lien
dollars right out of the gate which
which under Road eight straight up bat
and and you don't launch this fund and
over 20,000 people have kicked in almost
seven and a half million bucks and
flying these flights we've moved
we've moved almost eight and a half
million units the protective gear for
various people who are buying them and
our goal is to get to ten million
because frankly we've got requests from
the people buying the masks and the
hospitals to help them with with more
than double what we've done so you know
aren't like we're talking about it and
and and one of the things he said really
struck me was a lot of times people get
out you know people like us we get out
there we say hey everybody pitch in but
a lot of times people don't go back to
people and say hey this is working it's
it's actually working you know to you
know a couple thousand people doing 20
bucks suits that that moves about a
billion units of these masks and and and
this is actually working we're making
this work we're moving a lot of the gear
very fast and and we really need more so
we did want to say to people it has made
a difference and and and we and don't
stop we can double down on all together
and and keep making a difference well
the website to donate is on the screen
go fund me.com slash F slash frontline
responders fund
IDI thank you for putting this together
governor thank you for being so generous
and for having such forethought to get
these masks where they're needed to
these hospitals so we really do
appreciate it
well thank you very much
thank the keeping is always you know be
part of the solution rather than part of
the problem and this that's right I have
I we connected right away because he is
really always conscious about those
things no matter what the disaster is
and jumps in there and tries to find
ways of helping we won't want to work
together and all of those issues because
there's too many people out there that
are sitting in front of the television
and they're complaining about the
situation or things that do slow or
they're not enough tests and we always
ask ourselves you know what do you do
what do you do about it and so the ED
and I we just got out of our couch and
said we're gonna do something about it
and I think this is what it's about so
it doesn't matter how much money you
have people like it said have sent in
twenty dollars and they have sent in a
million dollars and be afraid 7.2
million dollars and then you know now we
are shooting for 10 million dollars so
because now we're getting back into the
selective surgeries in the various
different hospitals all over California
and in order for them to do that
successfully they need gowns they need
masks they need all the equipment the
protective equipment so this is why it's
important to be continued raising money
and continue getting discounts and those
masks and this predictive p.m. until
Arnold and I can do Expendables for you
know that's what we're doing together
all right